# Code for the paper "A deep learning framework for real time energy consumption prediction and anomaly detection in buildings" 

## Authors - Nivethitha Somu, Varun Madhavan, Krithi Ramamritham

### Abstract

Machine learning and deep learning models have been widely explored and deployed for accurate energy consumption forecasting and anomaly detection in buildings. Recent research advancements and challenges in building energy upsurges the need for a single framework that accommodates a precise energy consumption forecast model and a reliable anomaly detector. This works present a deep learning based unsupervised anomaly detection (DLAD) framework that employs neural basis expansion analysis for time series (NBEATS), a pure deep learning architecture, and quantile regression as a forecast and anomaly detection model, respectively. An enhanced version of dynamic time warping based imputation (eDTWBI) is used to impute the consecutive missing values in the building operation data. Further, the balance between accuracy and complexity of the learning model is maintained through the application of grid search algorithm for optimal lag order selection. NBEATS, as a forecast model, helps in learning seasonality and trend in the time series data, and quantile regression as an anomaly detector reveals the relationship between different prediction intervals or quantiles and energy consumption. The proposed DLAD is applied to the building operational data of KReSIT, an academic building at IIT-Bombay and the results were assessed using profound metrics of forecast (MAE, MSE, 𝑅2, MAPE, and RMSE) and anomaly detection (PICP, PINAW, and CWC). The obtained results demonstrate the practicality and efficiency of DLAD through better prediction and detection ability over the recent deep learning based anomaly detectors.

